---
layout: posts
categories: 
  - ecological genetics
title: Resubmitting
tags:
  - Medicago
  - resubmission
  - monitor
---

Edits to resubmit Medicago GWAS paper.

------------------------

Presentations I've given in the past year...should keep better track of this.

* Genes in ecosystems, ecosystems in genes: species' range limits and genomics of a mutualism. Department of Biology, Grinnell College. 2 March 2012.

* Genes in ecosystems, ecosystems in genes: species' range limits and genomics of a mutualism. Department of Biology, Amherst College. 2 April 2012.

* Association mapping to understand the genetics of complex traits: analyses of a legume-rhizobia symbiosis reveal that full sequence data avoid some pitfalls from SNP platform data. 1st Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 7 July 2012

* Association genetics of the Medicago truncatula - Sinorhizobium mutualism using whole genome sequence data. Department of Plant Pathology, University of Minnesota. 8 October 2012.

* A tale of two legumes: range limits of Chamaecrista fasciculata and genomics of the Medicago - rhizobium mutualism. Department of Biology, University of Vermont. 25 February 2013.

Updated CV. Maybe I should redo this in markdown and keep update on webpage, with easy option for pdf output when needed?

## Bradyrhizobium

RAST for gene annotation

## Computing

Getting second display to monitor correct resolution - [this](http://www.arunviswanathan.com/node/53) did the trick!  See also http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1818564
