---
layout: posts
categories: ApTranscriptome ApGenome
title: Wed - Fri notes
tags:
  - DNA 
  - extraction
  - transcriptome
---

## 2013-11-20

### Climate cascade

Lacy Chick in town from Tennessee after IBS conference. 

Meeting to discuss Aphaenogaster project:

  - LC phytotron results for CTmax and CTmin
    * little evidence for lab acclimation *within* generation
    * CTmax and CTmin correlated with latitude, as well as thermal breadth (CTmax - CTmin)
    * less variation in CTmax than CTmin
    * more physiological constraints on CTmax than CTmin?
    * will morphological IDs be congruent with genetic relationships?
  - Pair phytotron results with Lacy's field results from 2012
    * 55 sites from Gainesville FL to Millinocket ME
    * CTmax and CTmin from field site
    * consistent results with phytotron
  - Analysis
    * partial Mantel tests
    * spatial analysis: take top PCs from PCA on kinship matrix. use as continuous predictor with CTmax/min/thermal breadth as response
  - discussion of authorsip

### ApGenome

Yesterday, test extraction to see if I can resolve last week's failure to get DNA from Aphaenogaster. Set up two extractions

1) 5 Aphaenogaster 
2) 5 Pogo

Treated identically. 

Followed tissue homogenization protocol without RNAse A incubation and shorten air-dry time after centrifugation.

Genomic-tip DNA extraction. Saw DNA nice and clear at isopropanol precipitation step in both tubes, qualitatively more in the Aphaenogaster tube!

Eluted in 500ul Buffer AE

Nanodrop 

Sample              ng/ul     260:280
----------------  --------   ----------
Ap20131121-ali4     0.58        0.73
Ap20131121          3.3         1.2
Po20131121-ali4    -3.6         0.12
Po20131121         -0.2        -0.35 
--------------------------------------

Initially concerning, but I eluted with 500ul so 3.3 ng/ul * 500 ul = 1650 ng DNA!
This would be quite good extraction if correct. The Pogo extraction less encouraging. Method seems to be quite finicky!

### ApTranscriptome

Message from Mahesh that he updated [VGN website](https://minilims1.uvm.edu/BCProject-26-Cahan/) with results of BLAST of the transcriptome set against itself: 

## 2013-11-21

### ApGenome

Precipitated Ap DNA with 70% ethanol, rehydrated in 100ul Buffer AE. **Nothing.** argh.

### ApTranscriptome

In process of modifying scripts to generate transcriptome using all reads from both colonies as done by Mahesh, but using diginorm.
Then map each sample individually to combined transcriptome.

### Molecular Ecologist

Interview questions to Richard Lenski

### Reading

Roux, J., Privman, E., Moretti, S., Daub, J.T., Robinson-Rechavi, M. & Keller, L. (2013). Patterns of positive selection in seven ant genomes. arXiv:1311.4706 [q-bio]. Retrieved November 21, 2013, from http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.4706

  - nice use of dN/dS
  - about 20% of ant gene families show positive selection
  - mostly negative results of what is not under social selection
  - 

Araújo, M.B., Ferri-Yáñez, F., Bozinovic, F., Marquet, P.A., Valladares, F. & Chown, S.L. (2013). Heat freezes niche evolution. Ecology Letters, 16, 1206–1219.

  - paper mentioned by Lacy. 
  - greater constraints in CTmax than CTmin across species 


Signorotti, L., Jaisson, P. & d’ Ettorre, P. (2014). Larval memory affects adult nest-mate recognition in the ant Aphaenogaster senilis. Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 281, 20132579.

  - colonies accept adoptive larvae! I knew this from composite colonies...
  - authors also show that once eclosed, larvae are less aggresive to both adoptive and genetically-related workers


Brown, S., Savage, P.E., Ko, A.M.-S., Stoneking, M., Ko, Y.-C., Loo, J.-H. & Trejaut, J.A. (2014). Correlations in the population structure of music, genes and language. Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 281, 20132072.

  - title says it: correlations between structure of music and genes
  - authors claim "quantitative evidence that music and genes may have coevolved by demonstrating significant correlations between traditional group-level folk songs and mitochondrial DNA variation"
  - can this be statistical wishfullness? seems to bizarre to be true...
  - correlation between music and genes statistically significant (r=0.42, p=0.015) and remained significant when geographical distance controlled for (r=0.385, p=0.032)
  - MARGINALLY significant after correcting for multiple testing
  - laughable "...music can be shown to be correlated with a robust genetic marker like mtDNA suggests that it might have a sufficient time-depth to track population movements". even if true, why would you want to???

Pickrell, J. (2013). Joint analysis of functional genomic data and genome-wide association studies of 18 human traits. bioRxiv. Retrieved November 19, 2013, from http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2013/11/19/000752

  - method to utilize functional data to improve GWAS
  - assign prior probablity to SNP based on annotation

Johnson, V.E. (2013). Revised standards for statistical evidence. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 201313476.

  - another criticism of frequentist methods


## 2013-11-22

### climate cascade

In group meeting, discussed R markdown, data formatting and worked on analyzing a qPCR dataset of Andrew's. Used `ddply` to efficiently calculate slope for 8 targets!

    ddply(datasub, .(target), summarize, slope = lm(Ct ~ log(dilution))$coef[2])

### ApTranscriptome

Gradually have realized that having all analyses for 'climate cascade' project in a single git repository is neither achievable or practical.
Makes much more sense to have a github organization or lab (e.g GotelliLab) that has a fork of each *individual's* github repository for a specific project or analysis.
In this vein, transferring `ApTranscriptome` project from within climate-cascade repository to a stand-alone project and repository.
At same time, redoing analysis with the following changes:

* Assembly both Ar and A22 together
* Run assembly in Trinity only
* Perform digital normalization included in Trinity
  - include `--min_kmer_cov 2` parameter which uses only those kmers occurring at least twice. this will control for Illumina sequencing error-rate

Then, as before, use UCLUST and CAP3 to remove redundant transcripts and merge overlapping transcripts, respectively.
Map reads from each sample to assembly individually.


### ApGenome

Phone call with Sonia Dobias, Qiagen Technical Service Project Leader

* Buffer ATL proteinase K lysis buffer
* Buffer G2 not too different
* after digest, should be fairly clear, somewhat viscous
* DNA purified using DNeasy average molecular weight 30-60kb
  - this should be *more than* adequate 
* DNA purified using Genomic-tip not sheared, much longer 150kb
* recommended strategy
    - put all ants in mortar, pour liquid nitrogen on and grind into powder with pestle
    - scrape powder into tube and incubate with ATL overnight
    - perform standard extraction from this point!

### rstats

Guide to using [ggplot2](http://www.noamross.net/blog/2013/11/20/formatting-plots-for-pubs.html)


