---
layout: posts
categories: Open Science
title: Why I use Zotero
tags:
  - zotero
  - reference management
---

I was recently asked why I use Zotero and I thought I'd expand on those comments more coherently. There are many reference-management programs (compared [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_reference_management_software)) and I don't intend to compare them all, but will simply describe my experience with a few programs and why I think Zotero is the best option for *collaborative* reference management.

I have three primary objectives for using a reference management program:

1) Citing references when writing papers
2) Collecting, organizing and searching references
3) Sharing articles with colleagues

Most programs accomplish the first. I used Endnote for years (including my dissertation) and if you're working with Microsoft Word, it's probably still the best option.^[Yes, as you can probably guess from this statement, I gave up on Word in favor of latex (or Google Docs if I really need WYSIWYG) and think you should to if you perform statistical analyses and write papers (which means you if you're reading this and you're a scientist), but that's for another day.] Endnote frustrated me for two reasons. One, adding references was a pain (this has probably improved since I last used it) and the collaborative aspect was terrible. Even emailing a Word document between collaborators with Endnote citation tags almost always ruined the references, requiring re-formatting.

Regarding the second point; we're all overwhelmed by the literature. The ability to quickly collect and organize references format has become critical. These days we need software that can not only handle traditional journal articles, but pre-prints and blog posts. I started using Mendeley for this reason. When I last used it a year ago, Mendeley was probably the best at this. It has a beautiful and easy-to-use interface, and very functional citation functionality. The initial buy-in is cheap (2GB free storage!) but here's the *big catch*. Shared [team plans](https://www.mendeley.com/upgrade/team/) start at $49/month (and that's the education rate!!!), only allowing you 5 collaborators per group!!! Come on guys, this is outrageous. Admittedly, they do allow unlimited number of groups and space, so you could just spawn groups, but in my *academic* future, I can't see spending $588 a year just to share references with colleagues and students, which brings me to point (3). 

In my wild west dreams of running my own lab with busy students and collaborators across the world, I want to be able to share useful articles and references. When writing papers, I don't want to run into compatability problems, but to use the *same* reference database. Instead of searching through email for papers, I want to be able to go to my reference manager and find the relevant article, including a copy of the PDF and any notes. Enter Zotero.

Zotero does everything I've mentioned above, though maybe not quite as well as the other programs. Similar to Mendeley, it's free to download and available on all platforms (go linux!). It really excels at downloading bibliography information and PDFs with a single-click from your web browswer. Zotero doesn't have a built-in PDF viewer, but I actually prefer using an external program for opening and annotating files so this isn't a problem. 

But here's the big plus for Zotero: you can have *any number of shared libraries with any number of members*. I currently have 4 shared libraries with 2-12 collaborators each...at no extra cost. We can all add papers to the library, and manage references without emailing back and forth. And this will expand to however many projects and collaborators I can handle! Yay! 

When your library expands beyond the free 300MB, you can pay Zotero for extra storage. I pay $20/year for 2GB (almost 2,000 PDFs) and will probably step up the $60 for 6GB soon (a mere $5 per month). I think is quite reasonable for the service as you also get a decent web interface which means you can access your articles from anywhere, but if you want cheaper here's information on how to [sync your library using Dropbox](http://gettinggeneticsdone.blogspot.com/2010/12/sync-your-zotero-library-with-dropbox.html).

For what it's worth, Zotero also open-source. There are many useful plug-ins, which can make working with latex or LyX easier (hint: time to ditch Word!). Finally, though I'm actually not opposed to this on any principle, Zotero isn't owned by Elsevier as is Mendeley. 

So to conclude, I use Zotero because 

* **Low buy-in** - easy to to get collaborators to sign up 
* **Sustainability** - the cost of maintaining shared libraries with collaborators is manageable on a postdoc budget
* **Ease of use** - web-import functionality is great. now if I only I had time to read all those papers. but I can search them!
* **Open source** - yadda yadda yadda

