---
layout: posts
categories: Teaching
title: Teaching
tags:
  - BCOR11
  - Population Genetics
---

Second day of teaching Heather's classes

### BCOR

Regulation of gene expression. Lecture slides [here]({{ site.url }}/assets/lectures/regulation_expression_web.html) and case study on [quorum sensing]({{ site.url }}/assets/lectures/manipulating_bacteria.pdf). Note for future: ran out of time and only got through section 1 of the case study.

### Population Genetics

Tutorial on using [TASSEL](http://www.maizegenetics.net/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=89&Itemid=119) for GWA mapping. PDF [here]({{ site.url }}/assets/lectures/TASSEL_tutorial.pdf). Note that TASSEL requires Java 7 installed on computer, and Mac users need to manually force the program to run (Ctl-click on file).


### Biology seminar

[Brian McGill](http://www.brianmcgill.org/)

- community assembly
  * regional pool
  * sampling with clumping
- functional traits
  * traits are hierarchical
  * low-level traits (e.g. easy to measure 'functional' traits have low correlations and lower heritability. not necessarily indicative of the higher-level traits that may be predictive for species functioning and response
  * coordination among axes?
- climate responses
  * non-stationarity: climate responses not consistent across species distribution
  * Gause Leibig 
    - plot abundance against environmental variable. for any single environmental variable, most points fall below 90% line (lower abundance than expected), but these points are at line for another environmental variable. 
    - can detect limiting factor at any point across range using this method
  * *very cool result* after being challenged by David Currier(?), McGill examined species abundance distributions in paleo records and compared to present distributions. intra-ocular test showed substantial change in niche envelope for most species. that is, little evidence for niche conservatism 
  * competition interacts w/climate
- filtering acts on individuals, so community assembly is at *individual* level


