---
layout: posts
categories: ApTranscriptome
title: Monday notes
tags: 
  - expression
  - Chagas
  - blast
  - RSEM 
---

* wrote python script to split large fasta file into many subsets and the submit a batch job to run `blastn` on each subfile for Chagas project
  - each query takes about 1 minute
  - 5,000 queries would take about 3.5 days
* meet with Grace
  - painted ants into two groups (blue, red) for thermal treatments

### ApTranscriptome

Checked input files - does not appear that A22 and Ar were accidentally duplicated in the trimming step.

Installed RSEM from [github](https://github.com/bli25wisc/RSEM)

Added both RSEM and Sailfish to path `\etc\bash.bashrc` so they would be globally available.


### Reading

```{r, echo=FALSE, results='hide'}
library(knitcitations)
```

Hargreaves, A.L., Samis, Karen E. & Eckert, C.G. (2014). Are Species’ Range Limits Simply Niche Limits Writ Large? A Review of Transplant Experiments beyond the Range. The American Naturalist, 183, 157–173.

  - very nice meta-analysis of range limit research
  - includes my 2012 Oecologia paper!

Kiełbasa, S.M., Wan, R., Sato, K., Horton, P. & Frith, M.C. (2011). Adaptive seeds tame genomic sequence comparison. Genome Research, 21, 487–493.

  - faster alignment than BLAST
  - uses adaptive, rather than fixed, seeds
  - Program available [here](http://last.cbrc.jp/)

Bocedi, G., Palmer, S.C.F., Pe’er, G., Heikkinen, R.K., Matsinos, Y.G., Watts, K. & Travis, J.M.J. (2014). RangeShifter: a platform for modelling spatial eco-evolutionary dynamics and species’ responses to environmental changes. Methods in Ecology and Evolution, n/a–n/a. Retrieved January 27, 2014, 

> RangeShifter fills a major gap in the field of eco-evolutionary research byproviding a user-friendly platform that will make individual-based simulation of species’ dynamics on realistic landscapes much more accessible to stakeholders.


### UseR

Data visualization


